---
title: "Coursera Android Capstone"
date: "2024-01-01"
category: [Projects, Showcase]
tag: [mobile, android, kotlin]
description: Capstone project for Coursera Android specialization
pin: true
---
### [<i class="fab fa-github"></i> GitHub Repo](https://github.com/DBerry07/VanderbiltCapstone_Kotlin)

### Overview

This is a note-taking and -saving app. The user is able to write their own notes and save those notes to their local phone storage. The notes are displayed using a RecyclerView in order of date created. Users can also edit a previously created note or delete a note.

Contains all four of the major Android app components - Activities, Broadcast Receivers, Services, and Content Providers. This version of the app is written in Kotlin.

### Details

#### Content Provider

The notes themselves are saved to an SQLite Database using a Content Provider - MyContentProvider.

#### Service

The WEB SERVICE implemented in this app is a simple image download. The ImageDownloaderService runs the DownloadAsyncTask that downloads the image. Both files are found under the "imagedownloader" package.

ImageDownloadService is used to download an image for display on LaunchActivity. This is the remote Web Service as required by the project specifications.

#### Broadcast Receivers

Two Broadcast Receivers are used in this app: one is used to receive the image bitmap data from the Download Async Task that handles the image download process; the other displays notifications to the user when Content Provider tasks are executed.


#### Activities

Activities are used to allow the user to interact with the app. There are 4 Activities with one acting as a superclass for the other four. 
+ EditActivity is where the user writes or edits a given note. 
+ ListActivity is where the user's notes are listed for the user to select MainActivity is the landing page where the user can download an image from the internet and can proceed further into the app. 
+ ReadActivity allows the user to read a given note - but not edit it. 
+ LoggingActivity is the superclass mentioned and is mainly used for logging state changes.